Using Metasploit to run an exploit, especially for educational purposes like practicing penetration testing against a target like WebGoat, is a common way to learn about vulnerabilities and how to mitigate them. Before proceeding, ensure you have the necessary permissions and are operating within legal and ethical boundaries. Unauthorized use of these tools and techniques could lead to legal repercussions.

To run the Log4j exploit (assuming it's applicable to the version of WebGoat or any other application running on the target system that's vulnerable to Log4j), follow these general steps:

Open Metasploit Framework: Start by opening your Metasploit console. You can do this by typing msfconsole in your terminal.

Search for the Log4j Exploit Module: Once Metasploit is open, you can search for available Log4j exploit modules by using the search functionality. Type search log4j to see if there's an applicable module for your version of the vulnerability.

Select the Exploit Module: If there's a relevant exploit for Log4j, use the use command followed by the path of the exploit module. For example, use exploit/multi/some/log4j_exploit (Note: replace "multi/some/log4j_exploit" with the actual path of the Log4j exploit module you intend to use).

Set Options: Before running the exploit, you'll need to set the options required by the module. This typically includes setting the RHOSTS (remote host or target IP), RPORT (the target port), and any other necessary options. For example:

set RHOSTS 10.10.10.100
set RPORT 8080
set LHOST 10.10.10.5
set SRVHOST 10.10.10.5
set ForceExploit true
set HTTP_HEADER User-Agent





Set any other required options as directed by the module's documentation.
Run the Exploit: With all options set, you can run the exploit by typing exploit or run in the Metasploit console. This will attempt to exploit the vulnerability on the target machine.

Post-Exploitation: If the exploit is successful, you might want to perform post-exploitation activities, which could include establishing a persistent backdoor, escalating privileges, or exploring the network further. Metasploit has various post-exploitation modules available.

Important Considerations:
Permission: Ensure you have explicit permission to test the target system. Running exploits without authorization is illegal and unethical.
Impact: Understand the potential impact of the exploit. Some exploits can cause denial of service conditions or other disruptions.
Learning: Use this opportunity to learn about the vulnerability and think about mitigation strategies. Understanding how an exploit works is key to defending against it.
For exact details on using the Log4j exploit module in Metasploit, consult the module's documentation within Metasploit, as the parameters and options might vary depending on the specific module and the version of Metasploit you're using.



Metasploitable

sudo docker run --name ms7 --net cp_se_dockernet --ip 10.10.10.107 -d tleemcjr/metasploitable2:latest sh -c "/bin/services.sh && tail -f /dev/null"

Metasploitable is intentionally vulnerable to a wide range of exploits, especially web-based vulnerabilities, to provide a learning environment for security enthusiasts and professionals. Below are some notable web exploits against Metasploitable, along with their paths in Metasploit. These exploits target various services and applications that are known to be vulnerable in the Metasploitable VM.

1. DVWA - SQL Injection
Metasploit Module: auxiliary/sqli/dvwa/dvwa_sqli
Description: This module exploits the SQL injection vulnerability in the Damn Vulnerable Web App (DVWA).
2. Tomcat Manager Application Deployer Authentication Bypass
Metasploit Module: exploit/multi/http/tomcat_mgr_deploy
Description: Exploits weak/default credentials in Tomcat's manager application to deploy a malicious WAR file.
3. PHP CGI Argument Injection (CVE-2012-1823)
Metasploit Module: exploit/multi/http/php_cgi_arg_injection
Description: This exploits a vulnerability in the way PHP-CGI handles query string parameters, allowing for code execution.
4. Apache mod_cgi Bash Environment Variable Code Injection (Shellshock)
Metasploit Module: exploit/multi/http/apache_mod_cgi_bash_env_exec
Description: This module exploits the Shellshock vulnerability, a flaw in how the Bash shell handles environment variables.
5. Samba "username map script" Command Execution
Metasploit Module: exploit/multi/samba/usermap_script
Description: This module exploits a command execution vulnerability in Samba versions 3.0.20 through 3.0.25rc3 when using the "username map script" directive.
6. VSFTPD v2.3.4 Backdoor Command Execution
Metasploit Module: exploit/unix/ftp/vsftpd_234_backdoor
Description: This module exploits a malicious backdoor that was added to the VSFTPD download archive.
7. TWiki Search Function 'cmd' Parameter Command Injection
Metasploit Module: exploit/unix/webapp/twiki_search
Description: This module exploits a vulnerability in the search function of TWiki that allows for command injection.
8. Wordpress Plugin "Duplicate Page" Unauthenticated SQL Injection
Note: As of my last update, this specific exploit may not be present in Metasploitable, but similar WordPress vulnerabilities are often included in vulnerable VMs for educational purposes.
Suggestion: Look for vulnerabilities in known WordPress installations on Metasploitable or similar educational VMs.
